README.md, before:

# Emscripten CI

The main purpose of this repository is hosting the [Dockerfile](./Dockerfile) 
for building the Docker image used for the 
[Emscripten CircleCI build](https://circleci.com/gh/emscripten-core/emscripten).   

## :whale: Pre-built Docker Image 
This [Dockerfile](./Dockerfile) allows to build a Docker image, with the tools 
required for the Emscripten CI build. The image is hosted at 
[Docker Hub](https://hub.docker.com/r/haraldreingruber/emscripten-ci) and used 
by the [CircleCI Emscripten Project](https://circleci.com/gh/emscripten-core/emscripten). 

The following sections describe the important parts of the [Dockerfile](./Dockerfile). 
### Base Image
The `FROM` instruction sets the base image for the final Docker image. Also, all subsequent instructions are executed using this base image. 

See [FROM](https://docs.docker.com/engine/reference/builder/#from) (Docker Reference).   

### Package Installation (apt-get)
Additional packages/tools required by the Emscripten CI build are installed via apt-get using the `RUN` instruction.

It is good practice to execute `apt-get update && apt-get install * && apt-get clean cache` using a single `RUN` instruction, as each docker instruction is creating a new read-only layer. Running `apt-get clean` helps keeping the resulting image size low (which would not be the case if `apt-get install` was executed as a separate `RUN` instruction).

It's recommended to sort the package names alphabetically. For better traceability we created separate package sections for build, docs and test packages.  

See [best practices for writing Dockerfiles](https://docs.docker.com/develop/develop-images/dockerfile_best-practices/).   

### Package Installation (pip)  

Pip packages required by the Emscripten CI build are installed in a similar manner as described in the previous section. For example, the `--no-cache-dir` parameter is used in order to keep the size of the final image low.

Commit message:

Add docker image update instructions

README.md, after:

# Emscripten CI

The main purpose of this repository is hosting the [Dockerfile](./Dockerfile) 
for building the Docker image used for the 
[Emscripten CircleCI build](https://circleci.com/gh/emscripten-core/emscripten).   

## :whale: Pre-built Docker Image 
This [Dockerfile](./Dockerfile) allows to build a Docker image, with the tools 
required for the Emscripten CI build. The image is hosted at 
[Docker Hub](https://hub.docker.com/r/emscripten/emscripten-ci) and used 
by the [CircleCI Emscripten Project](https://circleci.com/gh/emscripten-core/emscripten). 

The following sections describe the important parts of the [Dockerfile](./Dockerfile). 
### Base Image
The `FROM` instruction sets the base image for the final Docker image. Also, all subsequent instructions are executed using this base image. 

See [FROM](https://docs.docker.com/engine/reference/builder/#from) (Docker Reference).   

### Package Installation (apt-get)
Additional packages/tools required by the Emscripten CI build are installed via apt-get using the `RUN` instruction.

It is good practice to execute `apt-get update && apt-get install * && apt-get clean cache` using a single `RUN` instruction, as each docker instruction is creating a new read-only layer. Running `apt-get clean` helps keeping the resulting image size low (which would not be the case if `apt-get install` was executed as a separate `RUN` instruction).

It's recommended to sort the package names alphabetically. For better traceability we created separate package sections for build, docs and test packages.  

See [best practices for writing Dockerfiles](https://docs.docker.com/develop/develop-images/dockerfile_best-practices/).   

### Package Installation (pip)  

Pip packages required by the Emscripten CI build are installed in a similar manner as described in the previous section. For example, the `--no-cache-dir` parameter is used in order to keep the size of the final image low. 

### Building the image and pushing it to Docker Hub

Use the following commands for updating the `emscripten-ci` pre-built Docker image:

:warning: Write access to the [Docker Hub repository](https://hub.docker.com/r/emscripten/emscripten-ci) is required. 

1. Clone/pull the latest version of this repository

1. Build docker image locally from the repository root (location of [Dockerfile](/Dockerfile)):
    
    `docker build . --tag emscripten/emscripten-ci` 
  
1. Login to your Docker Hub account (if not logged in already):

    `docker login`
      
1. Push docker image to Docker Hub:
    
    `docker push emscripten/emscripten-ci`
    
See [Docker CLI reference](https://docs.docker.com/engine/reference/commandline/cli/) for further details.
